# OUTREACHY CXSERVER CONFIGURATION FILES EXTRACTION

## Project description
Machine translation only exists for certain language pairs, and the Content Translation service only supports some of those. A set of YAML files under "config/" in the cxserver repository determines which languages are supported by the service.

Write a parser for these files and create a single flat, in-memory structure with all of the supported pairs. Export this data as a CSV of all pairs, with at least the following columns:

| source language	| target language	| translation engine | 	is preferred engine? |
|-----------------|-----------------|--------------------|-----------------------|
| de	| en |	DeepL	| True |

The configuration files have several different file structures. Most have the source as the top-level key, and target languages as a list of values under that key. The "handler" key indicates a non-standard interpretation for the file but this is only applicable for some files.
Some YAML files are ignored, currently: MWPageLoader.yaml, languages.yam, and mt-defaults.wikimedia.yaml. 
The config file base name is used as the translation engine name. 
The approach followed in this context is using the PyYAML library in python, and write the parser from scratch with python.

## Scripts and functions
### Tranform module
  transform.py is the equivalent of transform.js and performs the same function of transforming yaml files to a key-value pair using cross-product of languages

### Pairs and engine module
  This script produce a translation pair and preferred engine from the mt-defaults.wikimedia.yaml file.
  
### Fileparser module
  This is the main script as it consumes the transform and pairs_and_engine modules to extract the content of each yaml config files and create a csv file which contains
  all the content in the configuration file.
  
  The file Google.yaml and Yandex.yaml which do not follow the standard configuration use the handler "transform.py" to handle the language pairing. In the two files the   list of source and target languages is not given as it is given in the other files instead there is only a single list of languages and a handler. For these files the   source language and target language pairs are generated by the transform module.
  
   The mt-defaults.wikimedia.yaml file contains default settings for machine translation engines, such as the default engine to use for a given language pair if no        specific engine is specified. 
  
